

# Autochek's Backend API (An Assessment)

## Description

This Backend API supports Autochek's vehicle valuation and financing services, allowing users to register vehicles, apply for loans, and get vehicle valuations.

## Features

- **User Authentication**: Secure authentication with JWT tokens.
- **Vehicle Management**: Users can add and manage their vehicles.
- **Valuation Service**: Automatically fetch vehicle valuation data from an external API.
- **Loan Application**: Users can apply for loans, and the system validates applications based on vehicle valuation.

## Project Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/awesome-urch/autochek-backend.git
$ cd autochek-backend
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
$ npm install
```

### 3. Configure Environment Variables

Copy the example environment file and set up your environment variables:

```bash
$ cp .env.example .env
```

Edit the `.env` file to set your configurations:

```env
PORT=5555  # Set your preferred port number
RAPID_API_KEY=your_rapid_api_key_here  # Replace with your RapidAPI key
```

### 4. Compile and Run the Project

```bash
# Start the development server
$ npm run start

# Alternatively, for watch mode
$ npm run start:dev
```

### 5. Access API Documentation

Once the server is running, you can access the API documentation generated by Swagger:

- **Local Environment**: `http://localhost:<port>/api`
- **Production/Base URL**: `http://your-base-url/api`

Here, `<port>` refers to the port number you've set in your `.env` file.

## API Endpoints

### Authentication

- `POST /user` - Create or Register User .
- `POST /auth/login` - Log in and receive a JWT token.

#### Protected Endpoints

To access protected endpoints, please add the user generated tokens as `Bearer Tokens` in the authorization headers.

### Vehicles

- `POST /vehicles` - Add a new vehicle.
- `GET /vehicles` - Retrieve all vehicles associated with the authenticated user.

### Valuation

- `POST /valuations` - Get a vehicle valuation by VIN and save it to the database.

### Loan Applications

- `POST /loans` - Apply for a loan.
- `PATCH /loans/:id/status` - Update the status of a loan application.


